{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red11\green62\blue125;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2745\c32157\c56471;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15520\viewh13520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl660\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs51 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
COVID-19 Overview and Infection Prevention and Control Priorities in non-US Healthcare Settings\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl580\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs45 \cf2 \
Structure of the document\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 This overview is organized by first presenting a background on coronaviruses and then briefly describes the emergence, transmission, symptoms, prevention and treatment of COVID-19. The rest of the document reviews COVID-19 IPC priorities, in non-US healthcare settings.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl580\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs45 \cf2 Coronavirus Background:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause illness in animals or humans. In humans there are several known coronaviruses that cause respiratory infections. These coronaviruses range from the common cold to more severe diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), and COVID-19.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl580\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs45 \cf2 Coronavirus Disease 2019:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\fs39 \cf2 Emergence\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 COVID-19 was identified in Wuhan, China in December 2019. COVID-19 is caused by the virus severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), a new virus in humans causing respiratory illness which can be spread from person-to-person. Early in the outbreak, many patients were reported to have a link to a large seafood and live animal market, however, later cases with no link to the market confirmed person-to-person transmission of the disease. Additionally, travel-related exportation of cases has occurred.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs39 \cf2 Transmission\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 COVID-19 is primarily transmitted from person-to-person through respiratory droplets. These droplets are released when someone with COVID-19 sneezes, coughs, or talks. Infectious droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs. A physical distance of at least 1 meter (3 ft) between persons is suggested by the World Health Organization (WHO) to avoid infection, although some WHO member states have recommended maintaining greater distances whenever possible{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/non-us-settings/overview/index.html#r1"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11050 \cf4 1}}. \'a0Respiratory droplets can land on hands, objects or surfaces around the person when they cough or talk, and people can then become infected with COVID-19 from touching hands, objects or surfaces with droplets and then touching their eyes, nose, or mouth. Recent data suggest that there can be transmission of COVID-19 through droplets of those with mild symptoms or those who do not feel ill{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/non-us-settings/overview/index.html#r2"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11050 \cf4 2}}. Current data do not support long range aerosol transmission of SARS-CoV-2, such as seen with measles or tuberculosis. Short-range inhalation of aerosols is a possibility for COVID-19, as with many respiratory pathogens. However, this cannot easily be distinguished from \'93droplet\'94 transmission based on epidemiologic patterns. Short-range transmission is a possibility particularly in crowded medical wards and inadequately ventilated spaces{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/non-us-settings/overview/index.html#r3"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11050 \cf4 3}}. Certain procedures in health facilities can generate fine aerosols and should be avoided whenever possible.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs39 \cf2 Symptoms\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 A wide range of symptoms for COVID-19 have been reported{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/non-us-settings/overview/index.html#r4"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11050 \cf4 4}}. These include:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fever or chills\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cough\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fatigue\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Headache\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nasal congestion or runny nose\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Muscle or body aches\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sore throat\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
New loss of smell or taste\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nausea or vomiting\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Diarrhea\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 The estimated incubation period is between 2 and 14 days with a median of 5 days. It is important to note that some people become infected and do not develop any symptoms or feel unwell.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs39 \cf2 Illness Severity{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/non-us-settings/overview/index.html#r5"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \'a0
\fs25\fsmilli12675 5,6,7}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 Despite the important concerns about case fatality rates, most COVID-19 illnesses are \'96 and we expect will continue to be \'96 mild, and most patients will recover spontaneously with some supportive care, especially children and young adults. Data from several countries suggest that 14%-19% are hospitalized and 3%-5% will need intense care unit admission.\
The first largest description of patients with COVID-19 came from China, where the outbreak of COVID-19 started, and is described in detail below. \'a0Among the 44,672 confirmed COVID-19 cases reported from December 31, 2019 through February 11, 2020, the clinical presentation was as follow:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf2 Mild\'a0
\f2\b0 (non-pneumonia and mild pneumonia cases) represented 80.9% of confirmed patients with COVID-19 in China.\

\f3\b NOTE:\'a0
\f2\b0 These cases included a large spectrum of illnesses including but not limited to patients having fever, cough, chest pain, nausea, and body pain.\'a0
\f3\b Severe\'a0
\f2\b0 (dyspnea, respiratory frequency \uc0\u8805  30/min, blood O
\fs22\fsmilli11050 2
\fs34 \'a0sat \uc0\u8804 93%, PaO2/FiO2 ratio <300, lung infiltrates >50% within 24\'9648 hours) represented 13.8% of confirmed patients with COVID-19 in China.\

\f3\b Critical\'a0
\f2\b0 (respiratory failure, septic shock, and/or multiple organ dysfunction or failure, death) represented 4.7% of confirmed patients with COVID-19 in China. 1,023 (49%) deaths were reported among the 2,087 critically ill patients.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs39 \cf2 People at Higher Risk for Severe Illness\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 It is important to note that COVID-19 is a new disease, therefore there is limited information regarding risk factors for severe disease. In some cases, people who get COVID-19 can become seriously ill and develop difficulty breathing. These severe complications can lead to death. The risk of severe disease increases steadily as people age. Additionally, those of all ages with underlying medical conditions (including but not limited to heart disease, diabetes, or lung disease) appear to be at higher risk in developing severe COVID-19 compared to those without these conditions. As more data become available, additional risk factors for severe COVID-19 may be identified.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl580\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs45 \cf2 COVID-19 Prevention and Treatment\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\fs39 \cf2 COVID-19: Everyday Preventive Actions\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 There are a number of ways to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection. These include:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Avoid close contact with people who are sick\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u9702 
\f2 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Remember that some people without symptoms can still spread the virus\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stay at home when you are sick\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then dispose of it properly\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Use a face covering when physical distancing is difficult or when going into closed spaces{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/non-us-settings/overview/index.html#r8"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11050 \cf4 8\
}}\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u9702 
\f2 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Physical distancing should be at least 1 meter (3 ft)\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Perform hand hygiene with soap and water or use alcohol-based hand rub\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u9702 
\f2 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hand Rub should contain at least 60% alcohol{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/non-us-settings/overview/index.html#r9"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22\fsmilli11050 \cf4 9}}\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl1\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u9702 
\f2 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hand washing should be done for at least 40-60 seconds based on WHO\'92s recommendations\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs39 \cf2 \cb3 COVID-19: Treatment\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 Currently, care for patients with COVID-19 is primarily supportive. Care is given to patients to help relieve symptoms and manage respiratory and other organ failure. There are currently no specific antiviral treatments licensed for COVID-19, however many treatments are under investigation. Remdesivir, which is also an investigational drug, received Food and Drug Administration (FDA) emergency use authorization for treatment of hospitalized patients. Finally, no vaccine is currently available.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl580\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs45 \cf2 IPC for COVID-19\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\fs39 \cf2 What is IPC?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs34 \cf2 Infection prevention and control (IPC) is the practice of preventing or stopping the spread of infections during healthcare delivery in facilities like hospitals, outpatient clinics, dialysis centers, long-term care facilities, or traditional practitioners. IPC is a critical part of health system strengthening and must be a priority to protect patients and healthcare workers.\'a0
\f3\b In the context of COVID-19, the IPC goal is to support the maintenance of essential healthcare services by containing and preventing COVID-19 transmission within healthcare facilities
\f2\b0 \'a0
\f3\b to keep patients and healthcare workers healthy and safe.
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl500\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs39 \cf2 COVID-19: IPC Priorities\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2\fs34 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Rapid identification of suspect cases\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Screening/Triage at initial healthcare facility encounter and rapid implementation of source control\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl1\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	b.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Limiting the entry of healthcare workers and/or visitors with suspected or confirmed COVID-19\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Immediate isolation and referral for testing\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Group patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 separately\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl1\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	b.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Test all suspected patients for COVID-19\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Safe clinical management\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Immediate identification of inpatients and healthcare workers with suspected COVID-19\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Adherence to IPC practices\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Appropriate use of Personal protective equipment (PPE)\cb1 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl400\sa96\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Reference  (Retrieved 10/5/2020): https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/non-us-settings/overview/index.html\
}