{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 DELETE THESE and ones from channing, go through channing's first\
908 How to differentiate between coronavirus and simple flu ANSWER DIDN'T MATCH REMOVE\
1218 how coronavirus is spreading ANSWER DOESN'T MATCH REMOVE\
1323 coronavirus affect country "\
1253 Are young people susceptible to corona virus? "\
1278 how long does the coronavirus stay in your system "\
1397 how many people tested? "\
75 when will the social distancing end? and what is the economic consequent of the pandemic? "\
1240 what is the coronavirus named after "\
1148 coronavirus spread through air "\
1162 What is the situation right now in the world? "\
414 What is the difference between a bacteria and a virus? "\
105 Why is it called Corona virus "\
223 why is it named the corona virus "\
457 why is the coronavirus named that "\
508 why is corona virus named so "\
666 why is corona virus named corona "\
797 why is the corona virus named corona virus "\
1069 Why name it Corona? "\
1290 Why name it Corona "\
743 coronavirus ncvo "\
851 what is novel coronavirus symptoms "\
926 coronavirus 2019-ncov "\
975 coronavirus ncov "\
1003 what is coronavirus how it spreads "\
1297 Does soap really kill the virus? -> not answered in the doc\
1525 Does soap really kill the virus -> not answered in the doc\
645 How long will it take before we can stop social distancing -> not answered in doc\
1135 How long do you think we will have to be in a lockdown -> not answered in doc\
539 What do I need to know if a patient with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 asks about having a pet or other animal in the home? -> doc is a 4 word referral sentence\
493 Should I use Sudafed? -> not answered in the doc\
556 Should I use NSAIDs -> not answered in the doc\
1399 what is canada's situation right now? -> not answered in the doc\
1509 what is the coronavirus disease 2020 -> not answered in the doc\
43153\
318 usa prepare for coronavirus -> not answered in doc}